README


Matlab data and code related to the paper: 

Stochastic characterization of navigation strategies in an automated variant of the Barnes maze
Ju-Young Lee, Dahee Jung and Sebastien Royer
eLife 2023



Content of each file:


_ Juyoung_et_al_Data.mat: Processed experimental data

_ Distributions_days.m: Function generating statistics of vestibule sequences across days.

_ Distributions_segments.m: Function generating statistics of vestibule sequences across the first 10 segments of the trials.

_ Distributions_trials.m: Function generating statistics of vestibule sequences across the 10 trials of each day.



_ mixture_model.m: Function generating vestibule sequences and statistics using the mixture model

_ Multidays_mixture_model_generate.m: Function generating files that store mixture model simulations for all possible probability combinations, for each of the 19 days of the experiments.

_ Multidays_mixture_model_Fit.m: Function fitting the experimental distribution to the simulation generated by the function Multidays_mixture_model_generate.m. Several plots are generated, such as the evolution of search strategy across days.



_ MarkovModel.m: Function generating vestibule sequences and statistics using the Markov chain model.

_ Markov_model_genetic_algorithm.m: Function implementing a genetic algorithm to determine probability parameters of the Markov model. The function store in files the parameters of 10 repetitions of the genetic algorithm.

_ plot_Markov_model_Fit.m: Function generating plots using the files outputted by the function Markov_model_genetic_algorithm.m.



_ randi_expn.m: Function to generate discrete random numbers based on a symmetric exponential distribution


How to use:

Experimental distributions:
1) load Juyoung_et_al_Data.mat.
2) run Distributions_days.m  or  Distributions_segments.m  or  Distributions_trials.m


Mixture model: 
run mixture_model.m


Fit of mixture model over multiple days:
1) load Juyoung_et_al_Data.mat. 
2) run Multidays_mixture_model_generate.m (several hours to execute) 
3) run Multidays_mixture_model_Fit.m in the same folder (a few seconds to execute)


Markov chain model:
run MarkovModel.m


Fit of Markov chain model with genetic algorithm 
1) load Juyoung_et_al_Data.mat.
2) run Markov_model_genetic_algorithm.m (several hours to execute)
3) run plot_Markov_model_Fit.m (a few seconds to execute)
